docs(explore/dpp): rework dpp page (#872)
kumahq/kuma-website: docs/docs/dev/explore/dpp.md

# Data plane proxy

A **data plane proxy (DPP)** is the part of Kuma that runs next to each workload that is a member of the mesh.
A DPP is composed of the following components:

> - a `Dataplane` entity which defines the configuration of the data plane proxy.

Author: ```suggestion
- a `Dataplane` entity defines the configuration of the DPP
```

> - a `kuma-dp` binary that runs on each instance that is part of the mesh. This binary spawns the following subprocesses:

Author: ```suggestion
- a `kuma-dp` binary runs on each instance that is part of the mesh. This binary spawns the following subprocesses:
```

>   - `envoy` which will receive configuration from the control-plane to manage traffic correctly 

Author: ```suggestion
  - `Envoy` receives configuration from the control-plane to manage traffic correctly 
```

>   - `core-dns` which will help resolve Kuma specific DNS entries

Author: ```suggestion
  - `core-dns` resolves Kuma specific DNS entries
```

::: tip

> Data plane proxies are also often called sidecars.

Author: ```suggestion
Data plane proxies are also called sidecars.
```

:::

> Since we have one replica of `kuma-dp` for every replica of every service, the number of DPP running quickly adds up. 

Author: ```suggestion
We have one instance of `kuma-dp` for every instance of every service.
```

> For example, if we have 6 replicas of a "Redis" service, then we must have one instance of `kuma-dp` running alongside each replica of the service, therefore 6 replicas of `kuma-dp` and 6 `Dataplane` entities as well.

Author: ```suggestion

```

<center>
<img src="/images/docs/0.4.0/diagram-11.jpg" alt="" style="width: 500px; padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 10px;"/>
</center>

> ## Concepts: Inbounds, Outbounds, Tags and Services

Author: ```suggestion
## Concepts
```

### Inbound

> Inbounds are defined in the `Dataplane` entity and is a combination of a port and a set of tags.

Reviewer: Is it correct? 
```suggestion
Inbounds are defined in the `Dataplane` entity and are a combination of a port and a set of tags.
```
Shouldn't outbounds be moved after Inbounds to make the same order as in the title?

The port is the local port that the workload binds to for this inbound.

Most of the time a DPP exposes a single inbound. When a workload exposes multiple ports, multiple inbounds can be defined.

### Tags

> Tags are a set of key-values that are defined for each DPP inbound. These tags serve these purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags are a set of key-values that are defined for each DPP inbound. These tags serve the following purposes:
```

Reviewer 2: "key-value pairs" ?

- Define which service this DPP inbound is part of.
- Add some metadata on the nature of the service being exposed. 

> - Be able to select subsets of dataplanes using these tags.

Reviewer 2: Allow subsets of data planes to be selected by these tags.

> - Be able to select subsets of dataplanes using these tags.

Author: ```suggestion
- Allow subsets of data planes to be selected by these tags.
```

> Some tags are reserved to Kuma are prefixed with `kuma.io` like:

Reviewer 2: Do users generally add their own `kuma.io/*` tags? If not, we might want to more broadly say "Tags prefixed by kuma.io are reserved to Kuma". It's simpler than "some tags are reserved and are prefixed" and may prevent users from creating a tag we might reserve in the future.

### Service
A service is a group of all DPP inbounds that have the same `kuma.io/service` tag.

### Outbounds
Outbounds in the `Dataplane` entity is a way to expose a service in the mesh on a local port of the proxy.
This is useful when not using [transparent-proxy](../networking/transparent-proxying.md) which makes outbounds automatically managed by the control-plane. 

## Dataplane Entity

The `Dataplane` entity serves the following purpose:

- Define the different **inbounds**
- Describe how the other DPPs can connect to this DPP
- Define the different **outbounds**
- Configure local binaries (expose the Envoy admin port, expose health probes, configure transparent-proxy)

A `Dataplane` entity must be present for each DPP. This will work differently in the following environments: 

- Kubernetes: the `Dataplane` entity is generated [**automatically**](dpp-on-kubernetes.md) by the control-plane.
- Universal: the `Dataplane` entity must be defined [**manually**](dpp-on-universal.md).
 
The `Dataplane` entity includes the sections that are described below in the [Dataplane Specification](../generated/resources/proxy_dataplane.md):

> * `networking` define what services are exposed, transparent-proxy configuration, inbounds, and outbounds. 

Reviewer 2: defines

Reviewer 2: actually "to define", to keep consistent w the rest of the bullets

* `metrics` to configure how to collect metrics from the data plane proxy and the workload, check the [traffic metrics](../policies/traffic-metrics.md#expose-metrics-from-applications) for more details.
* `probes` to configure unsecure port to access workload's health endpoints for platform health probing, check the [health probes](../policies/service-health-probes.md) for more details.

## How data plane proxies get configured

> As mentioned previously each DPP has a `Dataplane` entity attached to it which describes what and how a workload should expose.

Reviewer 2: should be exposed

# Data plane proxy

A **data plane proxy (DPP)** is the part of Kuma that runs next to each workload that is a member of the mesh.
A DPP is composed of the following components:

- a `Dataplane` entity defines the configuration of the DPP

> - a `kuma-dp` binary runs on each instance that is part of the mesh. This binary spawns the following subprocesses:

Reviewer 3: nitpick: this `a` looks a bit weird and the nested list does not use articles - can we omit it here as well?

  - `Envoy` receives configuration from the control-plane to manage traffic correctly 
  - `core-dns` resolves Kuma specific DNS entries

::: tip
Data plane proxies are also called sidecars.
:::

We have one instance of `kuma-dp` for every instance of every service.

<center>
<img src="/images/docs/0.4.0/diagram-11.jpg" alt="" style="width: 500px; padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 10px;"/>
</center>

## Concepts

### Inbound

An inbound consists of:

- a set of tags
- the port the workload listens on

Most of the time a DPP exposes a single inbound. When a workload exposes multiple ports, multiple inbounds can be defined.

### Tags
Tags are a set of key-value pairs (.e.g `version=v2`) that are defined for each DPP inbound. These tags serve the following purposes:

- specifying the service this DPP inbound is part of

> - adding some metadata about the exposed service

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- adding metadata about the exposed service
```
